It's so easy to spiral in moments where
things feel stuck, slower than usual, or
simply off. You start questioning
yourself, your path, and even your
worth. That's when you start to text
people to get the validation. You start
to scroll to find signs that you're
still on track. You are down the line
reaching out for external validation.
And if that's when you usually start to
reach out for validation from men,
messages, social media, friends, or even
family, then this video is especially
for you. Validation that comes from
outside is always unstable and is almost
a guarantee for an unfulfilled life. The
most magnetic shift happens when you
start to validate yourself from the
inside. And that's what this video is
about. Learning how to validate yourself
will calm your nervous system, help you
feel proud of yourself without needing
anyone to say it. You will start to feel
safe in your body. You will cultivate
that internal peace even when emotions
arise. And it also will build up your
self-esteem and your selfimage will be
stable. So you're not anymore relying on
external validation. You will be feeling
safe in your body and you will be
knowing who you are. You will not need
any more external validation to feel
good and you will also not allow any
more external disvalidation to feel low.
You will know exactly that you have your
own safe harbor within you that you can
always return to. Hi guys and welcome
back to my channel. My name is Michaela
and today we're talking about how you
can validate yourself and build up your
self-esteem. Let's get into this. First
of all, you have to understand why you
seek validation from the outside in the
first place. You probably have never
really learned how to validate and
emotionally regulate yourself. You only
have learned how to perform and earn
love, validation, and acceptance. So you
started to create an identity based on
reactions and feedback. You started to
be a bit more quiet. You started to
dilute your personality because you
learned that you're being too much, too
loud. So you created two identities.
There is this one identity that is your
true self when you are by yourself
alone. And there is another identity
that you are when you're with certain
people or with anyone. your public
identity. Now in this public identity,
you do things or you're not doing
specific things to be liked, to get a
good feedback, to not be too much, not
be too loud, not be too girly, not be
judged, not be anything that could
result in a bad feedback. Now, when this
external validation disappears, you
start to panic. You're trying to close
that gap because you are feeling like
you are losing grip. You're already
trying your everything to get positive
feedback and to be approved to get
validated from outside. But suddenly you
don't. And because you don't have your
internal harbor where you are safe, your
safety is tied to being liked, wanted,
and seen. And while these are very deep
wounds and it's not your mistake that
you have not learned how to do that, it
is your responsibility to change that to
learn how to validate yourself because
only then you can create yourself a
beautiful life and awareness is always
the beginning to change the beginning to
understanding. So I want you to ask
yourself what validation am I seeking?
What external validation am I addicted
to? And there are different types of
validations. Number one is male
validation where you need to feel wanted
in order to feel beautiful and loved.
The second is social media validation
where your mood is depending on your
comments and you create only for
attention and not for selfexpression.
Number three, there is something like
community validation where your fear is
that you don't fit in or you're not
being accepted by a group of people. So,
you shape yourself, your opinions, your
thoughts to stay liked and included. And
number four, the family validation where
you're trying to do everything possible
to be approved by your family and want
to make them proud even though you have
to hide parts of yourself in order to do
that. The fifth type of validation is
the achievement or academic validation
where you only feel worthy when you have
achieved something. When you have good
grades, when you have university done,
you simply can't rest without guilt and
you tied your identity and your
self-worth to output to success, to
achievements, to results. And the sixth
validation type is emotional validation.
You always need others to fully
understand you, to fully agree with you.
And when they don't do, you feel like
you did something wrong. Now, the first
step to reverse that is to understand
where does your external validation lie.
Go through the six types I mentioned and
get a clear picture of what you're
actually looking for. What are you
outsourcing? And many times we are
looking for that because we think we
cannot give that to ourselves. But the
truth is until you understand that you
are your only and main source for
everything you want for anything you
need, you will always rely on that
external validation. And then that
external validation creates your
identity. And your identity being based
on something external will always be
unstable. Every feedback you get will
make you crumble, will make you rethink
your whole life, will make you question
your own decisions. Your confidence
should never collapse because someone
else is not giving you the feedback you
would like. Your beauty doesn't vanish
just because your crush stops texting
you. Your value doesn't disappear just
because you didn't get enough likes or
views on your latest post. All of these
are not measurements of truth. They are
literally emotional addictions. It's
like eating fast food. Yes, it tastes
good while you're eating it, but at the
end of the day, it doesn't do your body
any good. It doesn't make you be more
healthy. It doesn't make you truly feel
and be nurtured from the inside. It's
just a quick fix. It's a quick fix for
hunger. It's a quick fix for sadness.
It's a quick fix for something on the
surface. People's opinions, people's
reactions are unpredictable. And if your
worth is relying on people's opinions,
reactions, feedbacks, then you will
always end up miserable. You have to
build your own foundation. You have to
build your own self-worth, self-esteem.
That you are unshakable. That whatever
someone else thinks cannot change your
opinion, cannot change your mind, cannot
change your worth. Because the only
thing that matters is what you think.
Now, whatever validation you're seeking,
it's always about other people's
opinions. And you have to keep in your
minds that other people actually do not
care that much. Yes, they might talk bad
about you. Yes, they might have their
opinions about you. Yes, they might say
that they don't want you in their life.
Yes, they might leave mean comments. But
at the end of the day, they go back home
and they care about their own stuff.
They forgot already about you because
you are not their main character in
their life. So why are you putting them
these people as a main character in your
lives? Why would you even be bothered by
what other people are saying when this
doesn't align with who you are? Ask
yourself, what is it that I think I
cannot give myself? What is it that I'm
looking for in other people to validate
me? This can be love. This can be
attention. This can be money. This can
be success. When you know what it is,
put all your energy, all your effort,
everything you have, put it into giving
this to yourself. If it's attention,
start staying alone with yourself. Do
not surround yourself with people
anymore for a month. It takes 30 days to
create a new habit, to also create new
pathways in your brain that will tell
you, "Hey, this is my new normal." When
you always go to other people to
validate your work, to validate how you
look, you always ask your bestie, hey,
you think this looks good? Should I buy
this? You ask your boyfriend, do you
like my dress? And when he says no, you
feel miserable. Stop asking him. Stop
doing all these things. Stop initiating
it. And whenever you crave the feeling
of validation,
stop for a second, sit back and ask
yourself, what do I need right now? Why
I want to ask this person to validate
me, to validate my looks, to validate my
feelings, to validate my decisions? What
am I looking for? And give it to
yourself. It sounds so simple, and it
actually is that simple. But you need to
have a clear voice in your head and you
need to be brutally honest with yourself
and tell yourself the truth. Whenever
these people leave, do not approve, give
you bad feedback, you give them the
permission, the control your joystick of
your life to ruin your life. From now
on, whenever you feel the urge coming up
to reach out, to ask for confirmation,
to ask for validation from whoever, I
want you to stop responding to it. Sit
with it and do not fill the gap. Yes,
it's uncomfortable, but that's where the
power lies. When you learn to stay and
sit with yourself and only yourself,
your energy, your opinions, your
thoughts, even through uncomfortable
situations, that's when you learn to
stay with yourself. That's when you
start to create that safe harbor within
that you can always return to. At the
end of the day, you are not afraid of
other people to judge you. You're
actually afraid of yourself to judge
you. Because when you sit with yourself,
you're alone with your own thoughts. And
your own thoughts are telling you how
bad you are, how ugly you are, how
useless you are. That's what you're
afraid of. Because that's what you truly
believe about yourself. And then you
have to face your own fears. You have to
face your own triggers first. And that
means uncomfortable work. But believe
me, this uncomfortable work is what
ultimately will set you free from other
people's opinions. This will set you
free from all kind of fears you have.
Recently, I was going for a walk and I
realized while walking exactly one year
ago, I was walking in that exact same
spot and I was having the realization. I
was in a moment where I really felt lost
bad. I didn't know what to do with my
life. I didn't know how to make money,
where to go next. I had zero plan in my
life. I was stranded. And in that
moment, I suddenly knew what I want to
do with my life. I suddenly and for the
first time ever felt what is my purpose
in life. I knew I'm going to help a lot
of people. I knew I'm going to speak on
YouTube, do my YouTube videos, and I'm
going to be fine without knowing the
next step, without knowing what is
coming tomorrow. I just knew I had this
deep understanding of why I'm here on
earth. And now, one year later, so much
has changed. And only because I didn't
give up. Only because I had myself. I
was with myself. And only with myself, I
had nobody when I was going through my
lowest lows. And only through that phase
of my life, I learned to be with myself.
I learned to be with my thoughts. I
learned to get to know myself from my
lowest version. I got to know my deepest
fears. I got to go through my deepest
fears only with myself. And now I
understand actually nothing bad can
happen to me as long as I have myself.
Like literally as long as I have myself,
nothing bad can really happen because I
got myself. Whatever happens, I got
myself. I got my brain. I got my body. I
am alive. I am able to create whatever I
want to create if I keep pushing myself.
if I keep believing in myself. And now
looking back, I realized that was the
moment I finally stopped seeking
validation from the outside. I finally
stopped to live for other people. I
finally stopped to listen to what other
people think about me. I finally started
to look for that validation inside of
me. And a big part of that is also to
believe in something. Believe in God.
Believe in the universe. You need to
believe in something that is within you
and not outside of you. That's why for
me God is inside of me. And only when
you believe that God parts of God is
inside of you like you were created by
God, you were created by the universe.
Only then you truly can be the most
powerful version of yourself because
only then you also know you have that
deeper understanding that as long as you
are alive you are being taken care of.
You are not being brought here to
suffer. You are part of God. You are
part of the universe. You are part of
that bigger picture. You are here to
express yourself and how you think you
can express yourself when you keep
expressing what other people want from
you. When you keep doing what other
people expect from you, your family
wants you to study law, but you just
feel drawn to fashion. Why are you
putting your family on a pedestal? Why
are you putting your boyfriend on a
pedestal? Why are you putting your
friends on a pedestal? Why are you
thinking that anyone or anything is
better than you? Why should anyone or
anything have more power than you in
your own life? You are the one and only
thing that actually creates what is
happening in your life, that actually
decides how you feel, that actually
decides your worth, that actually
decides what your standards are. And
it's only you. It's not anybody else.
The next point, how to validate yourself
is to change the way you talk to
yourself. It sounds so banal, but yes,
the way you talk to yourself is exactly
how you validate yourself. If you keep
telling yourself when you look in the
mirror how ugly, fat, or unccapable you
are, that's exactly what you will feel
and see in your life. You need to tell
yourself when you look in the mirror,
"Wow, you're so beautiful. You look so
good. You have a dream body. You are
amazing. You are so successful. You are
so capable." And even though you don't
believe it right now or even though you
think that's too much, you cannot say
that and believe it. Start small. Tell
yourself, "I know you can do it." Tell
yourself, "I know you feel bad right
now, but it's going to be better. I know
everything is going to be fine." Tell
yourself it's okay to feel sad. It's
okay to not feel your best. It's okay to
not be there. But talk to yourself in a
kind manner. That's the only way how you
can validate yourself. Validation is not
about always being the pink from the
sky. To validate yourself doesn't mean
to always tell yourself how beautiful
life is or how beautiful you are. To
validate yourself means that you are
soft with yourself, that you are
understanding with yourself, that you
are compassionate with yourself and not
that you're judging yourself,
diminishing your own light. For example,
if you truly know that you are
beautiful, you truly know, yeah, okay, I
have maybe a day that I'm not feeling so
beautiful, but I know I'm beautiful. I
know I am a good-looking woman. I know
my aura. I know my vibe. I know who I
am. Someone comes into your life and
tells you, "You're ugly. You're stupid.
You cannot talk. Your accent is stupid.
Your opinions about femininity, your
opinions about relationships are
absolute garbage. Would you be bothered?
No, you wouldn't. Because another
person's opinion is not more important
than your own opinion. If your own
opinion is I am beautiful and someone
says you are ugly, okay, your opinion. I
don't care what is your opinion about
me. All I care about is what I am
thinking of me. And I want you to remove
those sentences from your vocabulary.
Never ever say again about yourself
anything bad. You have to know that your
words are so powerful. Whatever you say,
you literally bring into this universe.
You give life to your words by speaking
them out loud. And I want you to first
of all speak to yourself in your head
kind. And second of all, never ever say
anything out loud that you do not want
to happen. Do never ever again say about
yourself out loud that you're ugly. Do
never ever say again out loud about
yourself that you are fat, that you are
unccapable, that you are unsuccessful.
Whatever. You can choose what you say
out loud. And if you're speaking about
yourself, do yourself a favor and only
speak out loud the good things. I know
you cannot always control thoughts. You
can only rethink thoughts. When you
think bad about yourself, you can
rethink it. You can rephrase it and
think it again. But the things you're
speaking out, you choose consciously.
Another way to validate yourself is to
fulfill your dreams. Get clear what you
want in life and go for it. Nobody else
can fulfill your dreams. Nobody else is
coming to save you. You need to be your
own night. You need to be your savior.
You need to be the person that creates
the life you dream of. Why? Because then
you don't need someone else. You're not
depending on someone else. If someone
comes into your life, they are an
add-on. You need to be already so full
that everyone and everything that comes
into your life is an add-on. And what is
an add-on? If an add-on falls away,
you're still full. If you have a mobile
plan and you have your 20 GBs data a
month, your add-on would be 10 GBs
extra. Even if these 10 GBs extra fall
away for whatever reason, you still have
your 20 GB data on a regular basis, the
cake without the cherry on top is still
a cake. And that's when standards come
into play. You have to have so high
standards for others to come into your
life, for a man come into your life. Why
is it that me as a woman, I should feel
honored when a man is proposing to me?
No, the man should feel honored that I
am even considering him. The man should
be on his tippy toes in order for me to
approve him even coming into my life
because my life is already full. And
yes, everyone is talking already about
standards with men, but you have to have
the same standards with friends. Friends
are so important when you have the right
ones. When you have wrong people in your
life and you just let them suck your
energy from all edges like a leech, how
much are you truly validating yourself?
I know people who say, "I love myself. I
am validating myself, respecting
myself." But at the end of the day, they
let other people treat them badly. This
might be a harsh truth, but if you are
allowing a person in your life that is
treating you badly, that is only sucking
from your energy, you're not validating
yourself. You're seeking the validation
in that other person. Whatever it is
that you're finding in that other person
is what you think you cannot give
yourself. Another way how you can learn
to validate yourself is to simply
isolate yourself or remove yourself from
specific people for a period of time.
Remove yourself from male attention for
3 months. Remove yourself from social
media for 3 months. Remove yourself from
that main source where you are seeking
your validation from and start to
validate yourself instead. Start to give
yourself the permission, the
compliments. When you start to validate
yourself, when you are your safe harbor
that you always can return to, then
you're also building your self-esteem.
Every time you say no to something that
doesn't serve you anymore, you also say
yes to what does serve you. So, every
time you say no to external validation,
you say yes to internal validation.
Every time you stop doing something that
would decrease your self-esteem, your
self-worth, you're also saying yes to
something that would increase your
self-esteem. When I started to say yes
to myself, I started to follow what I
want. I started to follow my passion, my
vision, my ideas. That was not only the
moment I stopped seeking validation.
That was also the moment I started to
build my self-esteem. My self-esteem now
compared to one year ago, you cannot
even compare it. I am a different
person. And that's another thing I want
to talk about before ending the video.
You need to be willing to say goodbye to
your identity, to a version of you in
order to let another version of you
arrive in your life. You know, I was
scared to let go of the old version of
me. I was thinking if I'm letting go of
that version of me, I am done. Like I am
finished. But the truth is the old
version of me was hindering me to my
dreams to be a better version of me. You
need to be willing to say goodbye to
that old version of you. A big part of
self- validation is also to understand
that some parts of you do not serve you
anymore. And that's okay. It's okay to
change, to outgrow people, to outgrow
circumstances. It's okay to be a
different person today than you were
yesterday. It's okay. It's actually
necessary. You need to grow in life. You
need to change. You need to be a better
and a different version of yourself
constantly. If you're stagnant in life,
you're not living. You are already going
to the end. The only thing constant in
life is that nothing is constant. As
long as you live, as long as you're here
on Earth, your mission has to be to
become better every single day. to keep
evolving, growing and working on
yourself, on your life, on your
passions, on your hobbies, on expressing
who you are, on creating the version and
the life you want. Anyways guys, I hope
this could help. Thank you so so much
for watching and being on this journey
with me. I love you so so much and I see
you in my next video. Bye-bye.